---
title: 'A very brief history of abstraction'
date: 2022-05-07T13:30:00+02:00
draft: false
tags: [computer science, essay, abstraction, math, formal]
---

Hi computers,

I have been thinking about abstraction and I would like to share my thoughts with you. Let’s first of all define what I understand about abstraction, in computer science terms.

First definition:
An abstract definition of something is something that is as undefined as possible but can potentially be infinitely defined.

A less abstract version of First definition:
An abstract definition of something (x|object) is something (x|object) that is as undefined as possible (according to the current base knowledge) but can potentially be infinitely defined.

The infinity approach could be justified with these two next statements:

NB, that there are infinite natural numbers in this interval [1 and +∞]
Also notice, that there are infinite rational numbers between each natural numbers, i.e [1,2]

With abstraction we can build systems, and complex systems. Properly defining the boundaries of these systems will also determine the efficiency of these systems.

Let’s try to build a system using abstraction.

When you are building a system from abstraction itself, you are mainly removing layers of abstraction (or adding layers of definition) by defining entities and properties in each layer.

I think that one good way to start our system is to think about which would be your point of reference for this system. Imagine that we want to draw a line, so we could use a cartesian axis. Let's for this example determine that our point of reference is (x=0, y=0). Defined this, the layer before/above that allows you to build the point of reference in the system should be the fundamental layer of the system. As we said before, in this system, the first layer of abstraction would be the cartesian axis.

Something fun happens here, each time you add a layer of abstraction by defining it, thus removing abstraction, the abstraction degree of the whole system increases!\* That’s so cool c'mon, you should be laughing!

I guess that is kind of a word game but at the same time it’s important in formal terms. Every single system in the world according to our current knowledge base can be extrapolated as an abstract system. And we could categorize all these systems in (organized, unorganized). Being an organized system, a system simple and easy to understand an unorganized system being the opposite.

And this, young CS padawan, is the reason why you always will read, keep your code simple! Because deciphering an abstract system organized sometimes is difficult, but deciphering an abstract system unorganized sometimes is just impossible.

Let's finish this post with a new term “abstract complexity” of a system and we can use the definition above\* to develop it. And also consider the (organized, unorganized) systems. You should avoid unorganized systems. So we will use an organized system:

At the beginning, our abstract complexity degree would be 0.

y = abstract complexity degree
x = abstraction layer
m = constant of complexity (i.e number of dimensions: x,y thus 2)

y = m\*x
y = 2\*1
y = 2\*2
and so on.

We could combine systems as separate functions and we could integrate the functions, then calculate the mean and get the complexity of a composed system.

In any case, this is just a quite naive approach, at least in math terms. But I like this field. I would like to read and learn more about it. I feel that there are a lot of fun relationships that remain hidden (at least for me) from a young CS student padawan. I will broadcast my advances and future experiments.

return 0
